Code of Conduct (ENG)
 
In a Code of Conduct you discuss with each other what you expect from each other and from the collaboration. Everyone participates in this and supports the agreements that you draw up together. A Code of Conduct is a flexible document. If after some time it appears that certain agreements are not realistic or applicable, then it is important to discuss this in the group and adjust the agreements if necessary. Think about what the best way would be to fill out the Code of Conduct with your group.
 
 
 
Team name:  
 
 
Shared team values:
Values ​​are your fundamental beliefs or ideals. It is the core of what you strive for and from which your behaviour is shaped.Discuss and write down your team values (min. 3).
1. Respect for other people and their opinions is vital in a team. Fairness when it comes to making a decision or change must always be considered of high importance and should not be treated lightly.  Team members should always care for the work of others or their own.
2. Communication is a key element in a team. Better communication helps the group in improving the quality of their work and boosts the productivity and morale of the team members. As a result, being clear, concise and coherent are absolutely essential when it comes to exchanging information. 
3. All members of the team must take responsibility for their own work and as a result treating any task lightly will not be tolerated. 
4. Every member should engage in all types of tasks and activities the team is doing and should never be left out voluntarily or not. Dedication is key and as such, they must always show commitment and interest in their work.


 
Assignment description: 
In your own words, describe what you need to do as a group in this course.


In this course our group must learn to work together and experience the creation of an application. Besides the knowledge they own, a programmer needs to be able to cooperate with different people and learn how to conduct meetings in all types of environments and situations.
 
Target or ambition level:
What grade are you working for?
The grade our team is looking for is a 9. 
 
Products:
What should you deliver at the end? On which platform do you share which documents (Discourse/Miro/MS Teams)? 
What standards must the work submitted meet? 
Useable application for managing tasks.
Our final products should be on Gitlab.


It is intended that the final product will be a usable application for creating and managing tasks. The code itself must be cleaned and commented to ensure that it is easy to understand. The application must implement the basic features required for passing, but it does not have to be limited to that.
All documents related to the application will be stored in a shared repository on GitLab.




 
 
Planning:
How do you ensure that each team member finishes everything on time? Did you clarify who will have a final say in the final deliverable and submit it to Brightspace on behalf of the project group?


To make sure that everyone will finish their tasks on time, we need to make deadlines that we set for each other as clear and concise as possible. This can be achieved by for example always putting deadlines in the agenda/minutes.


As for the final say, Leon will submit deliverables to Brightspace, though we will all come together at the last moment to review our product and make sure everything is in order.


As part of the planning process, all required work will be divided into tasks. There must be a clear description of what is required to complete each task, as well as a clearly defined deadline for each task. During each meeting, the chairman will check progress on current tasks, and if a deadline is missed, consequences may be imposed on the assigned person.


Despite the fact that all team members are required to review our product and raise concerns, Leon Braszczyński is responsible for the final deliverable and its submission to BrightSpace.
 
Behavior: 
How do you treat each other in the group? How do you handle disagreements within your group? Could your guide or student assistant be involved in reaching consent? What do you do if someone is late during a group meeting?


It is important to treat each other with respect. If disagreements arise, it should be raised and resolved during the next meeting. Everyone on the team who is not involved in the discussion should act as a mediator. To prevent the mentality of ‘somebody else will do it’ we choose the previous chairman as someone who is the ‘primary’ mediator. If the chairman is involved in the disagreement, someone else will take over this role.


Everyone should aim to be on location 5 minutes before the start of the meeting. The meeting will start without a member if they’re more than 5 minutes late and the missing member has not communicated that he will be late (within reasonable time).
 
Communication:
In what ways do you communicate with each other as a group and among yourselves? Zoom, MS Teams?
What information do you share via WhatsApp, e-mail, telephone?
WhatsApp: informal communication
Mattermost: for the more important announcements/documents and questions for the ta.
 
Commitment:
How do you determine the quality of the work your group and each individual team member does?  
How do you measure the commitment of the chairs and minute takers?


Checkstyle and common sense.
The quality of the work we do individually and as a group will be determined on two things. First of all, the code should work like it’s supposed to work. Certain Checkstyle rules will also help us enforce a good coding style, so our code stays clean and readable. 


Chairs: agenda on time before monday.
Minute takers: a member that missed the meeting should be up to date after reading the minutes.
The commitment of the chairs can be measured by looking at if they create an agenda on time, which means an agenda has to be shared with the rest of the team before the upcoming monday.
The commitment of the minute takers can be measured by checking if their minutes are clear enough that a member who has missed a meeting is up to date after reading those minutes.
 
Division of tasks and roles:  
A decision must be made as to who will be the chairperson and minute taker of your group. How do you determine this? Do the roles change over the course? 


First make sure everyone has been chair and minute taker, after that if people want to volunteer chair/minute taker, if there are no volunteers, choose a random person. We don’t choose two chairs in a row.
We’ll first make sure everyone has been a chairperson and minute taker once. We’ll appoint these roles by first asking for volunteers and if there are no volunteers, choosing a person at random. After everyone has been a chairperson and minute taker once, we’ll appoint the next roles in the same way: firstly looking for volunteers and if there are no volunteers, choosing persons at random. 
During the whole project we won’t appoint the role of chairperson to the same person twice in a row.


 
Meetings:
How often will you meet as a group? What preparation is needed for the meetings? 


At least once a week with the ta + once just us (can be online)
Agenda. Up to date with everything (individual tasks and generally with the project)
We will meet once a week with the TA. This will be a formal meeting in which we discuss bullet points described in the agenda. We will also meet once a week without the TA (this can be online). These meetings are more for coding related discussions.
 
 
Decision-making:
How do you make decisions? By majority vote or by consensus?
We should aim for consensus, but if necessary a large majority during a majority vote should be sufficient.
        
For any major decisions, a general consensus is preferable, however a majority vote should suffice as well if necessary.
 
 
 
Dealing with conflicts: 
How do you handle conflicts within the group?
Disagreements should be resolved during meetings. The last chairman (or someone not involved) should function as a mediator. → not working TA → not working SEBASTIAN Prooksch


Disagreements concerning any design or implementation aspects of the project are to be resolved internally, and as soon as possible depending on the urgency.
Generally however that entails waiting until the next meeting, where an impartial mediator (preferably the meeting’s chairman) can be employed to resolve the dispute.


Additionally, depending on the severity of the conflict, the TA may also be included in the issue, escalating all the way to the organisers and professors.


 
 
Guidance:
What do you expect from the teacher's and/or student assistant’s guidance? What do you want feedback on, on the content or on the collaboration?


We primarily want feedback on collaboration. We feel that content will be overall pretty obvious if it satisfies.  
Besides feedback we expect conflict handling in the  worst-case scenario (we can't solve it ourselves).
 
Guidance from the Teaching Assistant or professors should be limited to collaboration, only rarely infringing on content, considering that any auxiliary resources from the internet can be utilised as well.


Feedback on collaboration will include conflict-handling, or organisational issues in the worst case.




Consequences:
What are the consequences if a participant in the group does not keep the agreements?


 DEATH


Worst case:
 
Success factors:
What makes your team a dream team?


 We’re all on the same level of what we want and what we can/experience
trust/communication/diversity
 
Norms or evaluation criteria
You will evaluate your own and each others work in this project.
Discuss and write down your team criteria. You need at least five different criteria (e.g. ‘keeps deadlines’). 
 
1. deadlines
2. Robustness of code
3. communication
4. Commitment to the project
5. Attitude




















First 2h of labs 22/02/2023
0 George 
1 Leon: Done
2 Senne
3 Gido
4 Marco 
5 Viktor




Team name:        5
Shared team values:        0
Assignment description:        0
Target or ambition level:        0
Products:        1
Planning:        1
Behaviour:         2
Communication:        2
Commitment:        3
Division of tasks and roles:        3
Meetings:        3
Decision-making:        4
Dealing with conflicts:        4
Guidance:        4
Consequences:        5
Success factors:        5
Norms or evaluation criteria        5